---
title: loops,arrays,objects practicals
description: loops,arrays,objects practicals
date: 2023-10-06
tags: js
---

<p>The next session was practical session trying tasks that were related to loops,arrays and objects. You can find my codepen with all my code <a href="https://codepen.io/Jake-Barry-coding-projects/pen/LYMqZoM">here.</a>

We were given an array of objects , containing a shooping cart full of different items , quantities and prices. 

<br>
Firstly I created a function to calculate the total of all the items.(cartCalculator)
within it I created a variable called total price, which I could use to return the final sum at the end of the function. 
To actually add everything up , I created a for loop which would increment the value "i" if its value was less than the number of objects in the array. 
"i" would essentially represent the current item and it would multiply the quantity of this item by it's price.It would loop this for every item. 
 <br>
Next I followed a similar set of steps but I needed to create an if statement that gave a discount to an item if it was equal to a certain type. 
 <br>


 <br>
Calculating the mean, the average. I had to create a way to add all the numbers and then divide them by array length. 
This was pretty easy using a variable and += in a for loop to add all the numbers to the variable in each loop around.Outside of the loop I could then divide the total of the variable by amount of numbers in the array which would be arr.length. 
 <br>
Calculating the median. The median is the middle number so this was a little trickier as I had to account for the possibility an even amount of numbers wouldn't allow me to find the middle number so easily. 
First of all a function was created and an empty variable was set for the median. A variable 'arrLength' was created for the length or the amount of numbers in the array. 
An if statement helped determine whether or not the length of the array had an even amount of numbers or not. 
<br>
For example, if it's even we had to take the two middle numbers,add them together and divide them by two. Which looks like:
<br>
if(arrLength % 2 === 0){
            median= (arr[arrLength / 2 - 1 ] + arr[arrLength/2])/2
 <br>
One thing that caught me out at first was the fact that we have to take into account the fact that arrays use zero index based numbering. The first number we had to get would actually have a position number of one less than the number we wanted to find in the array. e.g. 3 would array[2]
If the array had a length which was odd, we could simply subtract 1 and divide by 2. 
<br>
Calculating the Mode would mean finding out which number was appearing the most. 




</p>