---
title: The DOM Lesson Tasks
description: The DOM Lesson Tasks
date: 2023-10-20
tags: The DOM Lesson Tasks
---

<p>

In this lesson we learnt about the Document Object Model (DOM) , please click the titles of each task to see the corresponding codepen.

<h4><a href='https://codepen.io/Jake-Barry-coding-projects/pen/ExGdYNw'>Task 1</a></h4>

For task 1 we learnt about selectors and how to select DOM elements in different ways.i.e. getElementbyId, querySelector to name a couple.
Once we have selected them and assigned them to a variable we can now interact with them in JavaScript.

<h4><a href='https://codepen.io/Jake-Barry-coding-projects/pen/OJrBLbe'>Task 2</a></h4>

In task 2 we actually created an element with methods for a todo list which would act as an item on the list. We first created a text node which would hold our text and created an element to store this text. 
We used appendChild to append the text node to the actual element. We could then append the element to the list which holds all the list items.

<h4><a href='https://codepen.io/Jake-Barry-coding-projects/pen/bGOmbgG'>Task 3</a></h4>

In task 3 we learnt how to remove list item from the list using the remove() method. 

<h4><a href='https://codepen.io/Jake-Barry-coding-projects/pen/vYbByGz'>Task 4</a></h4>

For task 4 we created a submit handler for the form by using an event listener. This would carry out a function when the form was submitted.In this case an alert would show when the form was submitted.
As an extra part we looked at another way we could trigger the alert. 'For the submit handler , we used the 'submit' dom event but there are many we can use as part of event listeners or event handlers. In the second way , we used an event listener on the title which would trigger the alert when clicked. 

<h4><a href='https://codepen.io/Jake-Barry-coding-projects/pen/JjxPWNK'>Task 5</a></h4>

In task 5 we learnt about the preventDefault() method which would prevent the default action of any event if the default action was unwanted. I also used a click event listener to delete a list item to show how event listeners can carry out useful functions for us.  

<h4><a href='https://codepen.io/Jake-Barry-coding-projects/pen/jOdNBYR'>Task 6</a></h4>

Task 6 combined everything from tasks 1-5 to create a working todo list. In addition to this , I added a way to highlight a list item that had just been created and apply an appropriate image based on the priority selected when submitting the form. 
The 'just-created' highlight is added when creating a post by using classList.add. When creating another post, a for loop would first cycle through the items and remove this class using classList.remove as they are not new anymore. 
Within the javascript code is an object which has stored images of corresponding flags for each priority in the select tag. I created a variable that represented the priority select value, I can the use this value to access the right flag with the object holding the images when submitting the form. I created an image element which I could append to a todo list item and it's 'src' attribute would correspond to the priority value selected. Now the todo list would have a different flag depending on which priority was selected. 


</p>