---
title: The DOM Practical
description: The DOM Practical
date: 2023-10-20
tags: DOM practical
---
<p>

The aim of this practical was to make a grocery list with the ability to add items, edit them and delete one or all of the items.
You can see the code <a href='https://codepen.io/Jake-Barry-coding-projects/pen/VwgjPoM'>here</a>

First all I started out by using selectors like getElementById or querySelector to grab all the elements I would be using.
Next we would add an event listener that would carry out the function addItem when we submitted the form. This will be the main event listener to create new items but there will also be event listeners for edit ,delete and clear buttons. 
Below I'll list how the functions work within the javascript file:
<br><br>
<h4>addItem</h4>
The addItem function is the actual function I will use for the event listener in order to differentiate whether the item is new or to be edited. 
First of all we wanted to use event.preventDefault so we can carry out our code and not the default behaviour.
Next we'd make a variable which would be value = grocery.value. This would ensure that what we wrote in the input box would be the title of our item. 
An id is generated from methods to add a unique identifier.
Next we'd carry out an if statement with conditions as to what would happen in certain situations. 
If there was text in the input (value) and the edit flag was false (which we want to be the default state), the item would be created(createListItem) , an alert would display and we would use the setBackToDefault function (see below).
If there was text in the input but the edit flag was true , this would then make edit Element(see edit Items) the value of the input. An alert would be displayed and we would use the setBacktoDefault function.
If there was no value and the submit button was clicked , an alert would appear asking the user to enter a value.
<br><br>
<h4>createListItem</h4>
In the createListItem function , we would create a new element to add to our list of items and give it a tag of article to make it semantic.
To add an id to each grocery item we need to create an attribute to assign it to. 
We would add the class 'grocery-item' so we could select items for later and to add styling from our css. 
In order to actually give structure to the element, we would edit the innerHTML of our 'element' variable to create something which can hold our input we submit and the edit and delete buttons.
We can also select our delete and edit buttons and also create event listeners to use these buttons with.
Finally we would actually append the element to the parent grocery list element that will hold all of our grocery items. 
<br><br>
<h4>Delete item</h4>
The deleteItem function is tied to an event listener in the createListItem function. We need to use currentTarget.parentElement.parentElement to select the parent of the parent element and select the whole thing we actually want to delete. 
<br><br>
<h4>clear items</h4>
Firstly I made an addEventListerner which would execute on a click and then complete the function 'clearItems'.
Within this function I declared a variable 'items'  that grabbed all the elements with the grocery-item class.
I could then create an if statement that would execute if the list was greater than 0.
using the items.forEach method , the function would remove all the items one by one.
That would be the end of the if statement.
Since that would delete all the items we added , we could then use classlist.remove('show-container') to remove the visibility of the container and get rid of the clear button. 
We could also display an alert to show that the list was now empty.
The function setBackToDefault would return everything back to it's default state. I will describe this later.
<br><br>
<h4>display alert</h4>
The display alert function would allow us to let the user know when something is added or deleted.
The function would have two arguments which would decide what to display,text and action. 
We would alert.textContent to set the text inputted in the functions argument to be the text displayed. 
To decide which color the alert appears , we can use alert.classList.add to add the selected class to our alert. 
Within the alert is also a function setTimeout to remove the alert after a period of time. 
<br><br>
<h4>edit Item</h4>
We have a variable within the  called editElement that we can change to edit the text of an item. 
Within the function we can use currentTarget.parentElement.previousElementSibling on editElement to target the text element which we want to edit. Parent Element because the button is in a button container and previous element sibling because we want to select the thing next to this button container. 
We then want to make the value of our input to editElement.innerHTML. This is to make sure what we type in the input will edit our grocery item and not submit a new grocery item.
Within the javascript file we would create a let variable called 'edit flag' in order to change between submitting a new item and editing an item. The flag is false by default but the editItem function called by our edit button event listener will change it to true.
We will also make the .textcontent of the submit button 'edit' so we know when we're editing an item. 
Now that the edit flag is true and we have targeted what we want to change we can edit the text of the item thanks to the if statement conditions seen in 'addItem' above. 
<br><br>
<h4>setBackToDefault </h4>
Finally  the setBackToDefault function makes sure everything is back in the default state so that a new item can be submitted.
To do this we set the input value back to being blank for a new item, the edit flag back to false so the if statement in addItem knows we're not editing a post and the change the text content of the submit button back to submit. 
</p>