---
title: Shopping Website
description: Shopping Website
date: 2023-12-15
tags: javascript-shopping-website
---
<br><br>

The shopping website proved to be a challenge and is still a work in progress , but shows off a lot of the javascript that I learnt on the course with a functioning basket and a way to add a discount to the cart. <br>
At first I wanted to create something bigger but I bit off more than I can chew and decided to keep it within the regit alm of what I had been learning for now. in the future I'll look into things like json and localstorage. <br>
I still learnt  a few small things to help me create this version of the website along the way. 
forEach
Using forEach I was able to iterate over the array and for each item I was able to create a product card by using template literals to apply the unique data to the card. I was also able grab the index of the item in the array to use it as an id. 
This was also used seperately to help update the basket. 

'this'<br>
one of the main reasons I needed an id for each item was so that I could properly add items to the basket. 
By using 'this' I can target the element that received the event from the event listener and check to see if there was already an item in the basket with that id. 

Map<br>
One of the big problems I ran into with the discount was taking the discount off to revert the product to it's original price. Adding the percentage back on gave me problems so I had to come up with a way. 
using the map method " productCart.map(function(item){return item.price})" I was able to iterate over each item in the array and create a new array that wouldn't be updated by the discount. I would be able to use this array to get the original prices back.

reduce <br>
I used reduce within a function to create the subtotal. 
".reduce(function(accumulator, cur) { return accumulator + (cur.quantity * cur.price)}, 0)
  .toFixed(2)"
here for each item in the basket array it would make sure the the quantity and price were taken into account and added to the accumulator price , whatever was in the basket so far. 
whenever the cartCalculator function with this array was used , the price would be updated and correct. 

splice
<br>
The splice method came in handy as I wanted a way to remove any item from the cart in any position. the items in the basket array use datasets to store their id. from this I can grab their index number and simply splice one , removing itself from the array. 


