---
title: Intro to JavaScript practicals
description: Intro to JavaScript practicals
date: 2023-09-28
tags: Javascript
---

<h2>Practical Tasks</h2>

<p>My first piece of javascript code for this session was figuring out a percentage of a number. To do this I used a variables with prompts to allow a user to input values. A function would then take these values and put the through a sum "(number/100)* percentage" to figure out the percentage. 
I could then console log this out to recieve my answer. 
<br>
In the next task I needed to create a way of outputting a drinks order and a message with their specific selection. 
A switch statement allowed me to use an alternative to an if statement. Instead of checking for a condition , it would check statements against a value entered. 
In this case a message would appear depending on what flavour and size you selected. 
With this came a lot room for error,Something I need to look into the future is adding validation to make sure only options can be input.
<br>
Next came a basic calculator. I would give users prompts to add two numbers and an operator to create a sum. I used a switch statement to determine what would happen when a certain operator was entered.
The switch statement would find the corresponding operator and return the answer. In this case the answer would be stored in a variable I created outside the function. I could later console.log this out when the code is run. 
<br>
You can check the codepen with all the projects out <a href="https://codepen.io/Jake-Barry-coding-projects/pen/ExGpGXZ">here</a></p> 