---
title: Loops, arrays and objects
description: Loops, arrays and objects
date: 2023-09-28
tags: Javascript
---



<br>
<br>
For my next session of learning Javascript , we had a look at loops,arrays and objects.
<br>
In this post I'll talk about my findings. You can see the code for the tasks I've worked on <a href="https://codepen.io/Jake-Barry-coding-projects/pen/QWzJRvX">here.</a>
<br>
In task 1 , I had to create a for loop. By creating a loop I can execute a block of code multiple times.In this case it was the 7 times table. Within this loop I to declare a value that was 0. 
While this value was less than 12 it would loop and increase until it was equal to 12. With this in mind I could then times this number by 7 , giving me the 7 times table. 
<br>
In task 2 I created an array. Arrays are lists where we can store data. In this case, it was favourite foods. By logging the array and the number (which uses zero index numbering) 
I was able to display an item from the array. 
<br>
In task 3, I used what I learnt in previous sessions to display a list of favourite foods from an array but I also added an option to add a new favourite food depending on how many items were in the array.
<br>
In task 4, I created an object. This is a way of organising variables and values in the form of key value pairs. In this case I create a recipe. In it I had values title , servings , recipe and directions. All of which could be assigned new variables for new recipes in a way that was organised and from which I could fetch data from. 
<br>
Lastly in task 5 I created a function, which used a loop to log the recipe to the console step by step. 
<br>
 <br><br>